# 3 - General concept - Nucleon JS framework

Nucleon uses sort of a Model-View-Controller (MVC) structure.
To be accurate, it's a **Model-View-Page** structure. You register pages in the app, using views and models to render a template.

## What's a page?
A page is an object defining a treatment bound to a request on a specific path and method (a.k.a **a route**).
> _For example:_
> An user clicks on a home button link, he makes a GET request on the "/" path.
> He submits a form having attribute "method" equal to "POST", it's a POST request on the form related path.
A page catches all requests matching it's route, and defines what to do when a request matches.
It could be rendering a template, or loging an user out and redirect him to the login page, and so on.

## What's a view?
A view is an object supervising the life of a template. It defines what's inside it, where to include it, and which properties are needed inside. When a page matches a request, it can call a view to integrate a template somewhere (a.k.a **render the view**), or make it disapear (a.k.a **revoke the view**).

## What's a model?
A model is an object that can be used by a view in its template, and by other components like pages. The view will use it to replace markers, or evaluate expressions in its template. Other components will use it to make operations, like changing a property value. In that case, the view will update its template all by itself.

## An example to illustrate?
```javascript
var userModel = app.models.add('user', {     // Adding a model representing an user
    firstname: 'Kévin',                      // Having a firstname
    lastname: 'Marcachi'                     // And a lastname
});

var profileView = app.views.add('profile', { // Adding a view
    root: '#my-container',
    template: '<div>{{ user.fistname + ' ' + user.lastname }}</div>',
    context: {
        user: userModel                      // Using user model
    }
});

var profilePage = app.pages.add('profile', { // Adding a page
    route: {
        method: 'GET',                       // For all GET requests
        path: '/user/profile'                // On "/user/profile" path
    },
    fn: function (request) {
        profileView.render();                // Rendering the profile view
        userModel.firstname = 'Brandon';     // And changing a value inside the model
    }
});
```
What's happening then? If a request matches the profile page, it renders the profile view, then changes the firstname value. The view will get notified of this change, and will update the template accordingly.

Next chapter: [The app](https://github.com/moduleon/nucleon/blob/master/doc/4.Main-components/4.1.App.md)
